fix: product media import with whitespace in url (#5957)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-04-04-fix-product-media-import-with-whitespace-in-url.md

---
title: fix product media import with whitespace in url
issue: 5868
author: p.dinkhoff
author_email: p.dinkhoff@shopware.com
author_github: @p.dinkhoff
---
# Core
* Changed: URLs generated by the `MediaUrlGenerator` will properly encode the file path to produce valid URLs in version `v6.8.0.0` (e.g. replace whitespaces as `%20`). The current implementation relies on the caller to do proper URL encoding with the returned string.
___
# Next Major Version Changes
## Changed URL generation of `MediaUrlGenerator` to properly encode the file path to produce valid URLs
* For example media files with spaces in their name now should be properly URL-encoded with `%20` by default, without doing URL-encoding only with the return value of the `MediaUrlGenerator`. Make sure to remove extra URL-encoding (e.g. usage of twig filter `encodeUrl`) on media entities to not accidentally double encode the URLs.

> * Changed twig filter `encodeMediaUrl` in `Storefront/Framework/Twig/Extension/UrlEncodingTwigFilter.php` will now return the URL in its already encoded form and is basically the same as `$media->getUrl()` with some extra checks.

Reviewer: I think (please correct me if I'm wrong, @mitelg) this is not necessary anymore, since you aleady updated `UPGRADE-6.8.md`

Reviewer 2: yes, please do not duplicate :grin: 

`# Next Major Version Changes` in changelog files is not necessary, if you already adjusted the 6.8 upgrade guide

---
title: fix product media import with whitespace in url
issue: 5868
author: p.dinkhoff
author_email: p.dinkhoff@shopware.com
author_github: @p.dinkhoff
---
# Core

> * Changed: URLs generated by the `MediaUrlGenerator` now encode whitespaces as `%20` in version `v6.8.0.0`. This ensures valid URLs in media and Import/Export operations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Changed: URLs generated by the `MediaUrlGenerator` will properly encode the file path to produce valid URLs in version `v6.8.0.0` (e.g. replace whitespaces as `%20`). The current implementation relies on the caller to do proper URL encoding with the returned string.
```

Reviewer 3: Regarding:
> This ensures valid URLs in media and Import/Export operations.

What about implementing a workaround for that, like all the other places in 6.7 we could manually encode the URLs for now by calling the proper method / service and stop doing that for 6.8

Reviewer: I personally would not enter the way it was before that. That can be confusing, while reading the changelog.

___
# Next Major Version Changes

> ## Breaking Change 1:
> * Changed: Whitespace characters (`' '`) in Media URLs will now be URL-encoded as `%20`.
> 
> ## Breaking Change 2:
> * Changed: Method `encodeUrl` in `Core/Content/Media/Infrastructure/Path/MediaUrlGenerator.php` will now return the URL in its already encoded form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Changed URL generation of `MediaUrlGenerator` to properly encode the file path to produce valid URLs
* For example media files with spaces in their name now should be properly URL-encoded with `%20` by default, without doing URL-encoding only with the return value of the `MediaUrlGenerator`. Make sure to remove extra URL-encoding (e.g. usage of twig filter `encodeUrl`) on media entities to not accidentally double encode the URLs.
* Changed twig filter `encodeMediaUrl` in `Storefront/Framework/Twig/Extension/UrlEncodingTwigFilter.php` will now return the URL in its already encoded form and is basically the same as `$media->getUrl()` with some extra checks.
```

Reviewer: I heard we want to get rid of those changelog files entirely and BCs and Major changes should be put into the `UPGRADE-6.7.md` or `UPGRADE-6.8.md` directly.
